<?xml version="1.0"?>
<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-GB" xml:lang="en-GB">
<head>
<title>List of figures and tables</title>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<link href="../koganpage.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section id="fm_sec_008" class="frontmatter" epub:type="frontmatter" aria-labelledby="fm_h1_004">
<h1 id="fm_h1_004" class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="page-ix" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page ix. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>List of figures and tables</h1>
<section id="fm_sec_009" class="loi" epub:type="loi" aria-labelledby="fm_h1_005">
<nav class="loi" epub:type="loi" aria-labelledby="fm_h1_005">
<h2 class="head-a" id="fm_h1_005">Figures</h2>
<ol class="loi">
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_094"><a href="07_chapter01.xhtml#ch01_fig_001"><b>1.1</b> <span class="default">The scientific method</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_095"><a href="09_chapter03.xhtml#ch03_fig_001"><b>3.1</b> <span class="default">The e-commerce optimization research landscape</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_096"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_001"><b>4.1</b> <span class="default">Basic user journey map, constructed with GA user data. The rows show drop-off rate at each stage of the journey, segmented by device type</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_097"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_002"><b>4.2</b> <span class="default">Segmenting data in GA by using inline segmentation</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_098"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_003"><b>4.3</b> <span class="default">Create advanced segments in Google Analytics  &#x2013; a powerful way to build your own audiences based on various attributes</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_099"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_004"><b>4.4</b> <span class="default">Example of GA funnel visualization. This one shows the flow of visitors through three main stages in the checkout funnel of this e-commerce site</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_100"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_005"><b>4.5</b> <span class="default">Segmented clickmap of a login page, where darker (red) dots are new visitors and white dots are returning visitors</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_101"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_006"><b>4.6</b> <span class="default">Example of a pop-up served by Ethnio to recruit usability testing participants in real time</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_102"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_007"><b>4.7</b> <span class="default">Using EyeQuant to compare the perception map of two design variations. The predictive algorithm, developed by analysing thousands of eye movements, shows where users are likely to look within the first few seconds</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_103"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_fig_008"><b>4.8</b> <span class="default">Jakob Nielsen&#x2019;s experiment. The black squares represent an opportunity spotted and white squares are those that were missed</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_104"><a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_fig_001"><b>5.1</b> <span class="default">An example of an on-site poll box, using Qualaroo</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_105"><a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_fig_002"><b>5.2</b> <span class="default">This value-infused homepage delivered a sizable uplift in revenue per visitor as it matched the desires of key personas. It also used mechanisms proposed by Michael Lanning to improve messaging</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_106"><a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_fig_003"><b>5.3</b> <span class="default">Personas should be goal driven and focused on motivations</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_107"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_fig_001"><b>6.1</b> <span class="default">Example of price reduction after higher-priced item has been added to basket</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_108"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_fig_001"><b><span id="page-x" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page x. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>7.1</b> <span class="default">A basic Value/Effort prioritization matrix. Ideas with the highest ROI sit in the top left quadrant. In optimization, these are experiments that cost less to execute yet return strong increases in online sales</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_109"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_fig_002"><b>7.2</b> <span class="default">Using GA advanced segments to compare revenue for homepage views to all sessions reveals a multiplier of 32 per cent. That&#x2019;s the revenue contribution of homepage viewers to site-wide revenue (&#x00A3;173,287 / &#x00A3;547,524 = 31.6 per cent), rounded up to 32%</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_110"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_fig_001"><b>8.1</b> <span class="default">The PDP template of a major global shoe brand, where concerns about size and fit were a source of purchase anxiety. In our first treatment, we made use of the open white space above the size selector</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_111"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_fig_002"><b>8.2</b> <span class="default">The first iteration of the experiment, showing the social proof element placed very prominently in the eye path. Revenue per visitor decreased by 12 per cent and there was a significant reduction in clicks on &#x2018;Size Information&#x2019;</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_112"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_fig_003"><b>8.3</b> <span class="default">The second iteration of the experiment folded the social proof element into the &#x2018;Size Information&#x2019; tab. This time, it resulted &#x000A;in a 7.9 per cent increase in revenue per visitor</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_113"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_fig_004"><b>8.4</b> <span class="default">Early-stage lo-fi wireframe, created with Whimsical. It shows just the outlines of a mobile screen redesign</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_114"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_fig_005"><b>8.5</b> <span class="default">Lo-fi wireframe for the homepage of Xero Shoes. It shows the position of images, video and copy. Figure 8.6 shows how this was translated into the final design</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_115"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_fig_006"><b>8.6</b> <span class="default">The final design of the wireframe shown in Figure 8.5 that resulted in a 6.45 per cent increase in RPV</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_116"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_fig_001"><b>9.1</b> <span class="default">Revenue trend of an imaginary business, showing the impact of launching a website redesign. From the graph on the left, it looks as if the new site is performing well. However, it turns out that this performance is linked to external variables in the competitive environment. The dotted line in the graph on the right represents the old design. It shows that the old design would have produced an even better result</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_117"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_fig_002"><b>9.2</b> <span class="default">E-commerce KPIs used as primary metrics in experimentation. RPV is a composite metric, a product of AOV &#x00D7; Conversion rate. It is a measure of how much revenue is earned per visitor on the site, including visitors who didn&#x2019;t make a purchase. When choosing a primary metric, always get as close as possible to revenue</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_118"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_fig_003"><b>9.3</b> <span class="default">Local and global maxima</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_119"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_fig_004"><b><span id="page-xi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page xi. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>9.4</b> <span class="default">Strategic theme exploration</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_120"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_fig_005"><b>9.5</b> <span class="default">A dashboard of Qubit&#x2019;s Digital Experience Platform shows the tension between statistical power and statistical significance. Despite observing a high probability (99.86 per cent) of a strong lift, the experiment &#x2018;needs more data&#x2019; to say that there really is an effect</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_121"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_fig_006"><b>9.6</b> <span class="default">A screenshot from a test result in Optimizely, illustrating regression to mean. This is a common pattern, so be careful of jumping to conclusions before the test has run its course</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_122"><a href="16_chapter10.xhtml#ch10_fig_001"><b>10.1</b> <span class="default">Personalizing the Burton homepage to show weather data to users in cold locations achieved an 11.6 per cent increase in conversion rate</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_123"><a href="16_chapter10.xhtml#ch10_fig_002"><b>10.2</b> <span class="default">Boyle achieved a 5 per cent increase in new account creation by showing a personalized offer tailored specifically to new visitors</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_124"><a href="18_chapter12.xhtml#ch12_fig_001"><b>12.1</b> <span class="default">Left- and right-brain thinking</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_125"><a href="19_chapter13.xhtml#ch13_fig_001"><b>13.1</b> <span class="default">The social proof message that led to a 6 per cent increase in revenue per visitor</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_126"><a href="19_chapter13.xhtml#ch13_fig_002"><b>13.2</b> <span class="default">Our client, a famous retail chain, makes the evaluation of alternatives easier by offering a great variety of product images. This invokes System 1 thinking by subtly answering key questions that a customer may have. What is the shape? How thick is it? How large is it? What is the texture like? These can all be answered subconsciously by looking at this collection of images. By the time the user examines product copy, it may be just a matter of System 2 rationalizing the decision, already made subconsciously by then</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_127"><a href="19_chapter13.xhtml#ch13_fig_003"><b>13.3</b> <span class="default">The Fogg Behavioural Model shows how different factors come together to make target behaviour occur</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_128"><a href="19_chapter13.xhtml#ch13_fig_004"><b>13.4</b> <span class="default">This winning test intensified the trigger force on the Cox &#x0026; Cox mobile site. In the control, on the left, each category is represented by an image. Our variation, on the right, removed the images and simply replaced it with tabs</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_129"><a href="20_chapter14.xhtml#ch14_fig_001"><b>14.1</b> <span class="default">Evolutionary site redesign</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_130"><a href="20_chapter14.xhtml#ch14_fig_002"><b>14.2</b> <span class="default">Radical redesign</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_131"><a href="20_chapter14.xhtml#ch14_fig_003"><b>14.3</b> <span class="default">Conversion disaster recovery programme</span></a></li>
</ol></nav>
</section>
<section id="fm_sec_010" class="lot" epub:type="lot" aria-labelledby="fm_h1_006">
<nav class="lot" epub:type="lot" aria-labelledby="fm_h1_006">
<h2 class="head-a" id="fm_h1_006"><span id="page-xii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page xii. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Tables</h2>
<ol class="toc">
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_132"><a href="07_chapter01.xhtml#ch01_tab_001"><b>1.1</b> <span class="default">Scenario A has the better conversion rate, but produces less revenue. A narrow focus on conversion rate can be detrimental to your business</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_133"><a href="08_chapter02.xhtml#ch02_tab_001"><b>2.1</b> <span class="default">A list of popular experimentation platforms</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_134"><a href="09_chapter03.xhtml#ch03_tab_001"><b>3.1</b> <span class="default">The Five Whys technique applied to an investigation into low mobile conversion rates</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_135"><a href="09_chapter03.xhtml#ch03_tab_002"><b>3.2</b> <span class="default">A research canvas can be used to translate business problems into research questions</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_136"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_tab_001"><b>4.1</b> <span class="default">A breakdown of the different types of visitor behaviour visualization tools</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_137"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_tab_002"><b>4.2</b> <span class="default">A basic log for capturing observations during usability testing</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_138"><a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_tab_003"><b>4.3</b> <span class="default">Data obtained from GA that compares the behaviour of visitors who used site search versus those who didn&#x2019;t</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_139"><a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_tab_001"><b>5.1</b> <span class="default">Codifying open-text responses to identify themes and patterns. Column D in this example highlights actual words used by respondents to build up an &#x2018;ordinary person&#x2019; vocabulary. This may later be used in sales copy on the website and elsewhere</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_140"><a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_tab_002"><b>5.2</b> <span class="default">Summary table comparing your competitors&#x2019; core messages</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_141"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_001"><b>6.1</b> <span class="default">Example showing total new product revenue and average revenue per new product over the last three years</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_142"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_002"><b>6.2</b> <span class="default">Count of bestsellers by year</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_143"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_003"><b>6.3</b> <span class="default">Example of raw data required for product category analysis</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_144"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_004"><b>6.4</b> <span class="default">Ratios within product category data</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_145"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_005"><b>6.5</b> <span class="default">Segmenting each of your products by PDP views and intent to purchase</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_146"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_006"><b>6.6</b> <span class="default">Product strategies after performing look-to-book analysis</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_147"><a href="12_chapter06.xhtml#ch06_tab_007"><b>6.7</b> <span class="default">An example of price-point analysis</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_148"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_tab_001"><b>7.1</b> <span class="default">Example of a prioritization framework, which can be set up in a spreadsheet with dropdowns for ease of use. The formula for Score is V/E*C</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_149"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_tab_002"><b>7.2</b> <span class="default">A sample rubric to quantify Value. Limit complexity in your framework as far as possible, but this is a good approach if you need more granularity. Remember to adapt this to your needs</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_150"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_tab_003"><b>7.3</b> <span class="default">A sample rubric to quantify Confidence. Use this approach if you feel that you need more granularity in your decision making</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_151"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_tab_004"><b>7.4</b> <span class="default">The binary model is an alternative method of prioritizing ideas. First, agree a list of considerations to put in the first column. Add 1 if it satisfies the condition, 0 if it doesn&#x2019;t</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_152"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_tab_005"><b><span id="page-xiii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page xiii. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>7.5</b> <span class="default">A basic roadmap, including hypothesis, prioritization (columns marked V-E-C represent Value, Effort, Confidence) and current status</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_153"><a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_tab_006"><b>7.6</b> <span class="default">Example of a slot-based schedule. Test 1 runs on the homepage for four weeks, and is replaced by Test 6 in the second month. The PDP has enough traffic to warrant a faster turnaround, so tests are replaced every 14 days</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_154"><a href="14_chapter08.xhtml#ch08_tab_001"><b>8.1</b> <span class="default">Examples of very subtle, yet powerful, copy changes</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_155"><a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_tab_001"><b>9.1</b> <span class="default">Options to integrate a winning test result into the live site. Number 1 is the preferred route</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_156"><a href="16_chapter10.xhtml#ch10_tab_001"><b>10.1</b> <span class="default">Framework for viewing different types of data for personalization</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_157"><a href="16_chapter10.xhtml#ch10_tab_002"><b>10.2</b> <span class="default">Example of results from a product detail page (PDP) experiment showing differences in behaviour for new and returning visitors</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_158"><a href="17_chapter11.xhtml#ch11_tab_001"><b>11.1</b> <span class="default">Thirty-two per cent improvement in total uplift from just a 10 per cent increase in each of your three power metrics</span></a></li>
<li class="toc-list" id="fm_toc_159"><a href="19_chapter13.xhtml#ch13_tab_001"><b>13.1</b> <span class="default">The difference between features and benefits, and how it could be expressed</span></a></li></ol></nav>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>