<?xml version="1.0"?>
<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-GB" xml:lang="en-GB">
<head>
<title>Preface</title>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<link href="../koganpage.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><section id="fm_sec_011" class="preface" epub:type="preface" role="doc-preface" aria-labelledby="fm_h1_005">
<h1 id="fm_h1_005" class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="page-xiv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page xiv. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Preface</h1>
<p class="text-fo">We wrote this book for our younger selves. In the past we have both run online businesses where our challenge was to massively increase sales. At the time we were working on two different continents, but both of us were under intense pressure to find some way of growing our businesses.</p>
<p class="text">A book like this did not exist at the time, and if it had we would have devoured it. If you are the person we were then, we have written this for you. Our vision was to write a step-by-step guide, with clear guidance on how to increase your online sales.</p>
<p class="text">Our decision raised eyebrows. Some warned us that writing a book that gives away our knowledge, reveals our secret sauce and expertise, would hurt our agency by enabling potential clients to do it for themselves.</p>
<p class="text">That never worried us. Every day we see how frustrated people get when using e-commerce websites, not only in terms of their experience of using the site, but also the thought processes they go through when making a purchase. Solving these problems is what drives us. At our agency, we have developed an e-commerce optimization process, refined over many years &#x2013; and it works. This is what we share with you. </p>
<p class="text">Follow our structured programme and watch your revenue curve go up. We routinely see our clients achieving double-digit revenue increases within 12 months. Implement the process and see your businesses grow this year, next year and into the future.</p>
<section aria-labelledby="fm_h2_001">
<h2 id="fm_h2_001" class="head-a">A note about the second edition</h2>
<p class="text-fo">This second edition presents a major revision and comprehensive update of the successful first edition. Tools have changed, the industry keeps evolving, and so has our framework. That is the nature of what we do. Always learning. Always adapting. Always optimizing.</p>
<p class="text">Everything you&#x2019;re about to read, we had to learn the hard way. We know this book can make your own challenge to increase online sales easier than it was for us. If you have any questions, or would like to share how this book has benefited your business, please e-mail either of us, <a href="mailto:dan.croxen-john@awa-digital.com"><span class="url-hyperlink">dan.croxen-john&#x0040;awa-digital.com</span></a> or <a href="mailto:johann.vantonder@awa-digital.com"><span class="url-hyperlink">johann.vantonder&#x0040;awa-digital.com</span></a>. We would be happy to hear from you and help you in any way we can.</p>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>