<?xml version="1.0"?>
<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-GB" xml:lang="en-GB">
<head>
<title>02 The kick-off</title>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<link href="../koganpage.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><section id="ch02_sec_001" class="chapter" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch02_h1_001">
<header>
<h1 id="ch02_h1_001" class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="page-11" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 11. " epub:type="pagebreak"/><span class="ordinal number" epub:type="ordinal"  id="ch02_num_001">02</span> The kick-off</h1>
</header>
<p class="text-fo">If you&#x2019;re a key decision-maker, getting started is easy.</p>
<p class="text">A reader of the first edition of this book, who enjoyed good success from implementing our system, offers this advice:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Give your team a copy of this book and have them read it.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">After a week, have a kick-off meeting.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Install Hotjar (see later), activate heatmaps and session recordings.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Do journey analysis and unmoderated usability testing (<a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_sec_001">Chapter 4</a>).</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">After two weeks, review preliminary findings for quick wins.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Run your first experiment (they used Google Optimize).</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Report the results and insights to the wider organization to build excitement.</p></li>
</ul>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h2_001">
<h2 id="ch02_h2_001" class="head-a">Be an evangelist</h2>
<p class="text-fo">What if you&#x2019;re not in that decision-making position? You don&#x2019;t have to be the CEO to introduce optimization and experimentation at your organization.</p>
<p class="text">&#x2018;You can&#x2019;t start a fire without a spark.&#x2019; You&#x2019;re the spark in that line from Bruce Springsteen&#x2019;s hit song, <i>Dancing</i> <i>in the Dark</i>. Every optimization programme started with someone lighting a spark. Be that someone!</p>
<p class="text">How you frame the conversations around it can make all the difference. Instead of trying to sell the idea, the trick is to build positive networks by &#x2018;discovering what you can do for someone else&#x2019;.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref" href="#ch02_en1" id="ch02_enx1">1</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">You are likely to find that optimization brings people together and breaks down silos between departments as everyone works together for a common goal.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref" href="#ch02_en2" id="ch02_enx2">2</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">Initially, however, not everyone in your organization will be equally supportive of your plans. The brain is hard-wired to resist change. Also, don&#x2019;t underestimate how emotionally connected some of your co-workers may feel to &#x2018;their&#x2019; website.</p>
<aside id="ch02_aside_001" class="box" role="complementary" aria-labelledby="ch02_boxtitle_001"><h3 id="ch02_boxtitle_001" class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="page-12" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 12. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Invite ideas</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Inviting your colleagues to contribute ideas can help to spread excitement and promote buy-in. Good ideas can come from anywhere, especially from those at the sharp edge of dealing with customers.</p>
<p class="text">Some companies even offer prizes for the most impactful ideas. Create a test idea submission form in Google Forms, with these fields:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Name.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Description. What is the problem or opportunity?</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Rationale. What led to the idea? What data or insights can be offered in support?</p></li></ul>
<p class="text-fo">Be open and receptive to any ideas that are generated in this way, no matter how unconvincing or unsubstantiated they seem at first glance. You will have a chance to filter out the subjective opinions and wild guesses later.</p>
<p class="text">To set expectations, make sure your contributors know that everything will be filtered by a robust and objective prioritization process (<a href="13_chapter07.xhtml#ch07_sec_001">Chapter 7</a>). Their ideas might not be next in line just yet.</p></aside>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h2_002">
<h2 id="ch02_h2_002" class="head-a">Get top-level support</h2>
<p class="text-fo">No matter how conclusive your evidence, good luck with implementing that big win if the organization is not aligned. David Vismans, Chief Product Officer at <a href="https://www.booking.com/"><span class="url-hyperlink">Booking.com</span></a>, stresses the importance of this element: &#x2018;If I had any advice for CEOs, it&#x2019;s this: large-scale testing is not a technical thing; it&#x2019;s a cultural thing that you need to fully embrace.&#x2019;<sup><a href="#ch02_en3" id="ch02_enx3">3</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">What do you think will be the outcome if you ask a co-worker to do something, backed by data, if your request is in conflict with instructions from their boss? This is what Matt LeMay, a highly accomplished product manager, calls the &#x2018;First Law of Organizational Gravity: individuals in an organization will avoid customer-facing work if it is not aligned with their day-to-day responsibilities and incentives.&#x2019;<sup><a href="#ch02_en4" id="ch02_enx4">4</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">That&#x2019;s one reason you need an executive sponsor in senior management &#x2013; a &#x2018;key requirement for success&#x2019; according to <i>Harvard Business Review</i>.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref" href="#ch02_en5" id="ch02_enx5">5</a></sup> In that article, the role of the executive sponsor is summarized as:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">aligning goals with corporate strategy;</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet"><span id="page-13" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 13. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>gathering support from senior managers;</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">providing ongoing direction.</p></li>
</ul><p class="text-fo">The ideal candidate has a direct interest in online sales or the overall performance of digital channels. And, of course, control of the budget.</p>
<p class="text">One more thing: if you can, avoid the HIPPO (Highest Paid Person&#x2019;s Opinion). It&#x2019;s that manager whose personal opinion wins the argument by virtue of their rank in the hierarchy. Optimization heaven is where your executive sponsor is open to data shaping everyday decisions.</p>
<p class="text">The conversion rate of the Intuit website has gone up by 50 per cent since they started a disciplined experimentation programme. Founder Scott Cook has the right attitude, which has enabled this enormous success: &#x2018;Instead of focusing on the boss&#x2019;s vote&#x2026; the emphasis is on getting real people to really behave in real experiments, and basing your decisions on that.&#x2019;<sup><a href="#ch02_en6" id="ch02_enx6">6</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">Still, the idea of &#x2018;experimenting&#x2019; on a live site can be a scary thought. Explain it in terms that matter to the executive sponsor (see &#x2018;How to deal with resistance&#x2019; at the end of this chapter for handling specific objections). Here are some ideas:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">It&#x2019;s the best way to separate the successful ideas from the bad ones &#x2013; you only have to keep the winners.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Rely on scientific rigour, instead of personal intuition.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Increase return on investment (ROI) on development resources as only winning ideas make it on to their roadmap.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Companies that do experimentation are more likely to push the boundaries of innovation and find breakthrough innovations.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Don&#x2019;t just pay lip service to customer-centricity, put the customer at the centre of important decisions.</p></li>
</ul></section><section><h2 id="ch02_h2_003" class="head-a">Get the team in place</h2>
<p class="text-fo">Optimization is a team effort.</p>
<p class="text">That team doesn&#x2019;t have to be big, nor does it have to be all in-house. Smaller organizations usually start with one internal person taking ownership of the testing roadmap. Specialist activities such as UX (user experience) research and A/B test coding are outsourced to subcontractors or an optimization agency.</p>
<p class="text"><span id="page-14" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 14. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>In our own agency, we see this approach even with large enterprises that could afford to recruit their own internal teams. A major attraction is the broad exposure that agency staff have to similar programmes at other companies.</p>
<p class="text">A small optimization team is typically made up of these roles:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">strategist/analyst;</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">UX designer;</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">front-end developer.</p></li>
</ul><p class="text-fo">As you scale, your team might expand into a range of roles briefly outlined below. In practice, one or more of these roles may be performed by one individual.</p>
<section><h3 id="ch02_h3_001" class="head-b">Project manager</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Responsible for keeping the process on track, coordinating team efforts and getting things done on time and on spec.</p>
</section><section><h3 id="ch02_h3_002" class="head-b">Researcher</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Improving customer experience assumes a thorough understanding of their world. In <a href="09_chapter03.xhtml#ch03_sec_001">Chapters 3</a>, <a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_sec_001">4</a> and <a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_sec_001">5</a> we explain how to get into their hearts and minds with various research methodologies. These include surveys, usability testing, interviews, heatmaps, store visits, customer immersion and competitor audits. On larger programmes the work could be shared by several researchers, overseen by one person who brings it all together.</p>
</section><section><h3 id="ch02_h3_003" class="head-b">Data analyst</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Research unleashes data. Raw data are useless until they are processed and turned into insights. Even small websites generate mountains of quantitative data that can be turned into actionable insights in the hands of a skilled data analyst.</p>
</section><section><h3 id="ch02_h3_003a" class="head-b">UX designer</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Creates wireframes and/or prototypes based on research findings. Depending on the scope of an experiment, they may also help developers integrate a split test elegantly into the website. UX designers are usually skilled at user <span id="page-15" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 15. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>research and can either assist with that component or take complete responsibility for it.</p>
<p class="text">It is worth pointing out that this role demands empathy with the user rather than artistic talent. Therefore, the role may not be best suited to a graphic designer or visual designer. It has to do with translating research into wireframes, not making things look pretty.</p>
</section><section><h3 id="ch02_h3_004" class="head-b">Developer</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Some experimentation platforms offer a drag-and-drop interface style so that anyone can build a test. Our advice is to avoid using that facility as far as possible. If you don&#x2019;t know your HTML from your JavaScript, having access to a front-end developer is essential.</p>
</section><section><h3 id="ch02_h3_005" class="head-b">Copywriter</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Small copy changes can bring about big results for reasons we&#x2019;ll explore in later chapters. At <a href="https://www.booking.com/"><span class="url-hyperlink">Booking.com</span></a>, where up to 1,000 experiments are live at any one time, some of the highest uplifts have been down to words alone.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref" href="#ch02_en7" id="ch02_enx7">7</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">Much of this is microcopy: tiny phrases that guide the customer at key points. With so few words available to achieve so much, each one counts.</p>
<p class="text">In the early stages the copywriter may review all the copy on the website, assessing its strengths and weaknesses against established copywriting principles.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section>

<h2 id="ch02_h2_004" class="head-a">Gathering evidence</h2>
<p class="text-fo">Imagine starting your optimization programme with a blank canvas. How do you generate good ideas?</p>
<p class="text">Remember the scientific method from <a href="07_chapter01.xhtml#ch01_sec_001">Chapter 1</a>. Start by asking questions. Next, gather evidence that can help you find answers and formulate theories about how to improve things.</p>
<p class="text">We&#x2019;ll recommend certain software tools which act like X-ray machines that you hook up to your business. They help you to diagnose issues and identify opportunities.</p>
<p class="text">Some of these tools will be embedded in your website by placing a tag in the site code. These tags are typically no more than a few lines of JavaScript that you&#x2019;ll get from the tool provider. In most cases, you can do this with limited technical knowledge, using a tag container. See the box &#x2018;Implementing tools without IT&#x2019; for more information on this.</p>

<aside id="ch02_aside_002" class="box" role="complementary" aria-labelledby="ch02_boxtitle_002"><h3 id="ch02_boxtitle_002" class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="page-16" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 16. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Implementing tools without IT</h3>
<p class="text-fo">To add some tools to your site, you may need to install code on your website. This can cause delays if you have to rely on your IT department or developers.</p>
<p class="text">A better solution is to have your developer do a one-off installation of a tag manager, such as Google Tag Manager (GTM). This is like a holder for software tags so that in future you can quickly add them without any IT input.</p>
<p class="text">The only tool you can&#x2019;t put into a tag manager is the experimentation platform. Place the tag directly in your website code, exactly as instructed by the vendor.</p></aside>



<p class="text-fo">In <a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_sec_001">Chapters 4</a> and <a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_sec_001">5</a>, we introduce you to a range of tools that allows you to gather valuable intelligence about your users and customers. Hotjar bundles many of them into one single package.</p>
<p class="text">As a generalist tool, it lacks some of the advanced features you might find in specialist alternatives. However, it comes at an attractive price point and gives you basic access to the following:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">heatmaps and scrollmaps</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">session recording</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">funnel analysis</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">forms analysis</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">on-site polls</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">live recruitment</p></li>
</ul><p class="text-fo">We&#x2019;ll cover each of these in <a href="10_chapter04.xhtml#ch04_sec_001">Chapters 4</a> and <a href="11_chapter05.xhtml#ch05_sec_001">5</a>.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h2_005">
<h2 id="ch02_h2_005" class="head-a">Experimentation platform</h2>
<p class="text-fo">The workhorse of your experimentation programme, it takes care of the following:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">It serves an alternative experience to a selection of visitors by allowing you to make changes to a webpage.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">It splits traffic so that half of target visitors see the variation and the other half still see the original. For the visitor, it&#x2019;s a seamless experience, so they have no idea they are in a test.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet"><span id="page-17" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 17. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>It calculates how the variation performs against the control and presents the results in an easy-to-read dashboard with graphs, tables and reports.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">It applies mathematical formulae to determine whether any difference in performance is statistically significant and not just down to chance.</p></li>
</ul>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_006">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_006" class="head-b">Client-side vs server-side</h3>
<p class="text-fo">The installation of your experimentation platform depends on whether you opt for a client-side or server-side testing tool. Most likely it&#x2019;s the former, unless you have a specific reason to go server-side.</p>
<p class="text">With client-side testing, the changes in the experiment are made in the user&#x2019;s browser. The code base on your site remains completely unchanged. Server-side testing sends a different version to the user&#x2019;s browser directly from the server.</p>
<p class="text">Installing client-side testing is relatively easy. Ask your developers or IT to insert a few lines of JavaScript on the site as directed by the vendor. Once the tag is in place, you can launch A/B tests without your back-end developers or IT getting involved.</p>
<p class="text">That is a major advantage of client-side testing: speed and ease. Speed is very important, as we&#x2019;ll discuss in later chapters. The disadvantages, compared to server-side testing, are scope of testing and performance. Neither is serious if you follow the advice in this book.</p>
<p class="text">With server-side tools you can test beyond the look and feel of your web and mobile sites. For example, you can make modifications to algorithms or product prices. Because they require server calls, the change can&#x2019;t be made in the user&#x2019;s browser. It enables experimentation on your full stack, including IoT (Internet of Things) and conversational tech. Building server-side tests requires the involvement of your back-end developers and slots into your code release schedules.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_007">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_007" class="head-b">Overview of experimentation platforms</h3>
<p class="text-fo"><a id="rch02_tab_001" href="#ch02_tab_001">Table 2.1</a> has brief summaries of the most popular experimentation platforms.</p><figure class="table" id="ch02_tab_001"><figcaption><p class="table"><a href="#rch02_tab_001"><span class="label" epub:type="label"><span id="page-18" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 18. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Table</span> <span class="ordinal" epub:type="ordinal">2.1</span> A list of popular experimentation platforms</a></p></figcaption><p class="table-skip"><a href="#ch02_tabskip_001">Skip table</a></p>
<!--<div class="table" role="table" tabindex="0">--><table class="shade-even left">
<thead><tr><th scope="col"><p class="table-head">Experimentation platform</p></th>
<th scope="col"><p class="table-head">Notes</p></th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody><tr>
<td><p class="table-text">Google Optimize</p></td>
<td>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Free! A premium version is available as Optimize 360</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Built on Google Analytics, which enables deep post-test analysis in a familiar interface</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">At the time of writing, limited to five tests at a time</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Great way to get started, especially if budget is a concern</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Use it to embed experimentation and build a business case for investing in another tool, if necessary</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p class="table-text">Optimizely</p></td>
<td><ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">An industry favourite, best suited for large enterprises</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Founded by ex-Googlers who managed experimentation on the Obama campaign</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Integrates well with third-party tools such as Google Analytics, Crazy Egg, Qualaroo and others</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Offers an advanced personalization module integrating machine learning and NLP (natural language processing) for superior targeting</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Offers server-side testing in addition to client-side</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Suitable for product experiments, feature flagging, mobile apps, TV apps, IoT and voice apps</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p class="table-text">VWO</p></td>
<td><ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Popular with medium-sized businesses</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Easy integration with popular e-commerce platforms, such as Magento, Shopify and BigCommerce</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Built-in research tools, including heatmaps, session recording and on-site polling (similar to Hotjar)</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Full-stack version available, enabling server-side testing and mobile app experimentation</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p class="table-text">ABTasty</p></td>
<td><ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Popular in French-speaking countries, but growing fast in the UK and elsewhere</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Visual editor and widget library make test building more accessible to non-coders</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Personalization made possible with advanced targeting and AI</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p class="table-text"><a href="http://Convert.com"><span class="url-hyperlink">Convert.com</span></a></p></td>
<td><ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Great tool at very attractive price point</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Claims to be less susceptible to flicker, discussed in <a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_sec_001">Chapter 9</a></p></li>
<li><p class="table-text">Solid A/B testing tool, built on robust infrastructure, without the bells and whistles that tend to drive up the price tag</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p class="table-text">Conductrics</p></td>
<td><ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">WYSIWYG editor and browser extension let you make simple changes without coding</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Machine learning helps you to discover valuable audience segments</p></li>
<li><p class="table-text">Server-side API available</p></li></ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p class="table-text">Adobe Target</p></td>
<td><ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Best suited for large enterprises</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Good choice if your organization already uses Adobe Analytics</p></li>
<li><p class="table-text">Offers &#x2018;personalized experiences at scale&#x2019;</p></li></ul></td>
</tr></tbody></table><!--</div>--></figure>
<p id="ch02_tabskip_001" class="text">Other excellent enterprise solutions are, in alphabetical order:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Maxymiser</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Monetate</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Qubit</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Sitespect</p></li>
</ul><p class="text-fo"><span id="page-19" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 19. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>The best option for you depends on various factors, for example:</p>
<ul class="list-bullet"><li><p class="list-bullet">Available budget. Tools come at different price points. Expect to pay more for advanced features. Google Optimize is free, but may not be the best option for you.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Your organization. Some tools are best suited for large enterprises, others are designed with SMEs in mind. Some focus on certain sectors, for example travel, media etc.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Scope of testing. To do website optimization, you don&#x2019;t need a platform that caters for IoT.</p></li>
<li><p class="list-bullet">Existing ecosystem. If you are already using Adobe Analytics, then Adobe Target may be the best choice for you. If Oracle is deeply integrated into your organization, consider Maxymiser.</p></li>
</ul><p class="text-fo">Some e-commerce platforms and CMS (content management systems) have their own A/B-testing functionality built in. Our experience is that these testing solutions rarely offer the level of complexity that the dedicated versions do.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h2_006">
<h2 id="ch02_h2_006" class="head-a">How to deal with resistance</h2>
<p class="text-fo">Experimentation is the ultimate business decision-making mechanism; few other decisions can be made with the same level of confidence.</p>
<p class="text">You can make rational business decisions underpinned by the weight and certainty of data. When do you normally get to make a business decision with 95 per cent confidence that it will give you a good result?</p>
<p class="text"><span id="page-20" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 20. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Yet, despite the clear benefits of testing, some business executives and owners are reluctant to test. You may have some convincing to do to overcome their misplaced beliefs, such as the myths below.</p>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_008">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_008" class="head-b">Myth 1: &#x2018;Most test results are negative so you lose money&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Okay, it&#x2019;s true that many tests don&#x2019;t beat the current variation. But it&#x2019;s not true to say that business stands to lose money from negative tests. You can refute this with basic maths. There&#x2019;s always a time limit on a test, so any decline in sales attributable to it will be short-lived. By contrast, every win keeps on adding revenue for many months to come, far outweighing any losses.</p>
<p class="text">Here&#x2019;s an illustration. To keep things simple, let&#x2019;s say that over a period of 10 months you run 10 tests, one a month. Six turn out to be negative, down on the control by &#x00A3;1,000 each. You&#x2019;re out of pocket by &#x00A3;6,000 in lost sales.</p>
<p class="text">Imagine if you&#x2019;d made those six changes live on the site permanently, letting 100 per cent of visitors see them. (A surprising number of companies do that, based on nothing more than liking the way it looks.)</p>
<p class="text">In that scenario, you would have lost &#x00A3;6,000 every month until you somehow realized that those changes weren&#x2019;t working as well as before. You&#x2019;d then get rid of them and be back to square one, with no clue as to what to do next. Instead, testing ensured that your loss was capped at &#x00A3;6,000 and gave you a wealth of knowledge on how to turn more visitors into customers.</p>
<p class="text">The remaining four tests give you a healthy &#x00A3;1,000 of extra sales each, making a total of &#x00A3;4,000 during the test period. Unlike the tests where sales went down, these you&#x2019;ll keep on running. Over the next year, those four winning tests will continue to bring in that extra &#x00A3;4,000 every month. That&#x2019;s &#x00A3;48,000 over the course of a year. Take away the &#x00A3;6,000 for the negative tests, and you&#x2019;re still up &#x00A3;42,000 in the first 12 months.</p>
<p class="text">But consider this too. Without running those six negative tests, you would never have got to the four winning ones. Negative tests are part of the process. You can&#x2019;t have one and not the other. It&#x2019;s the learnings from the tests that don&#x2019;t perform as you would like that let you crack the puzzle.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_009">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_009" class="head-b">Myth 2: &#x2018;Other priorities are more urgent&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Some managers like the idea of testing, but let other priorities come first. Replatforming, bug fixing and addressing operational issues are the ones we most commonly hear about.</p>
<p class="text"><span id="page-21" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 21. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Of course these need to be dealt with, but it&#x2019;s a question of deciding what&#x2019;s important and what&#x2019;s urgent. Whatever the reasons for delaying testing, the impact is the same &#x2013; losing valuable time and falling further behind the competition. Talk about leaving money on the table!</p>
<p class="text">It&#x2019;s actually an argument for bumping testing higher up the agenda. It can give you vital insights that could inform those very initiatives that are causing the delay.</p>
</section>
<section><h3 id="ch02_h3_010" class="head-b">Myth 3: &#x2018;It&#x2019;s too expensive&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">Saying that testing is too dear is like saying that you can&#x2019;t afford to do any marketing. What else should you be investing your money in, if not activities to help you generate more money?</p>
<p class="text">How much is it costing your company to make changes to the live site that have no impact, or worse, actually hurt sales? With experimentation, you validate each change before it hits your development backlog.</p>
<p class="text">As Lacy Rhoades from Etsy explains: &#x2018;Experimentation at Etsy comes from a desire to make informed decisions, and ensure that when we launch features for our millions of members, they work. Too often, we had features that took a lot of time and had to be maintained without any proof of their success or any popularity among users. A/B testing allows us to&#x2026; say a feature is worth working on as soon as it&#x2019;s underway.&#x2019;<sup><a href="#ch02_en8" id="ch02_enx8">8</a></sup></p>
<p class="text">When you consider the cost of the lost opportunities, it&#x2019;s really the absence of testing that&#x2019;s expensive.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_011">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_011" class="head-b">Myth 4: &#x2018;It wastes time&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">E-commerce managers want results fast, but tests take time to run. However, it&#x2019;s a false economy to view this as slowing down the business. As long as you put a ceiling on test duration, as explained in later chapters, testing won&#x2019;t hold you back and your developers will only implement changes on the site that have proved their worth.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_012">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_012" class="head-b">Myth 5: &#x2018;We want to invest in getting more traffic first&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">A bit of a chicken and egg situation, as you can&#x2019;t improve conversion rates if there aren&#x2019;t any visitors to convert. But if you already have an existing flow of traffic, why not tune up your site so that more of the visitors you already have will turn into customers and actually spend money when they get there?</p>
<p class="text"><span id="page-22" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 22. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Shelling out to shovel ever-greater numbers of visitors to a site that doesn&#x2019;t convert is like scattering ever-bigger sacks of seed onto barren land. If you want a bumper harvest, get the soil fertile first.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_013">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_013" class="head-b">Myth 6 &#x2018;We don&#x2019;t have enough traffic&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">It&#x2019;s true that if your site is small, it can be a challenge to run tests that are statistically significant. However, it may still be possible. In some ways, experimentation is even more important for a small site, because it really does have to focus on extracting value from the few visitors. There is more on this topic in <a href="15_chapter09.xhtml#ch09_sec_001">Chapter 9</a>.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_014">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_014" class="head-b">Myth 7: &#x2018;Our technology is too unstable&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">You&#x2019;d like to test, but you&#x2019;re concerned that your ancient platform is too rickety. Don&#x2019;t let it get in the way of making improvements to your site that can potentially fund the required upgrade. By delaying it, you&#x2019;re being left further and further behind. When you finally get around to updating the old technology, it won&#x2019;t magically optimize the site for buying.</p>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h3_015">
<h3 id="ch02_h3_015" class="head-b">Myth 8: &#x2018;You can never trust the results of a test&#x2019;</h3>
<p class="text-fo">It&#x2019;s true that if you break the rules, results are not to be trusted. However, if you follow the basic principles outlined in this book, you&#x2019;ll have data you can rely on more than most other situations you&#x2019;ll ever be in.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section aria-labelledby="ch02_h2_007">
<h2 id="ch02_h2_007" class="head-a">Summary</h2>
<p class="text-fo">Start small. Go for quick wins. Use that as a basis on which to evangelize the programme.</p>
<p class="text">Your team can be as small as one person, aided by access to key resources &#x2013; research, UX design and front-end development.</p>
<p class="text">Google Optimize is a free experimentation platform. If budget is an issue, use it to build a business case for expanding the programme.</p>
<p class="text">Have an executive sponsor on board from the start. That should be someone from senior management to align with corporate objectives, secure budget and win over support from other stakeholders.</p>
</section>
<section id="ch02_sec_002" class="chapter-endnotes" aria-labelledby="ch02_h2_008" epub:type="endnotes" role="doc-endnotes">
<h2 id="ch02_h2_008" class="title" epub:type="title"><span id="page-23" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label=" Page 23. " epub:type="pagebreak"/>Notes</h2>
<ol class="none">
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en1"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx1">1</a> Rezac, D with Hallgren, G and Thomson, J (2003) <i>The Frog and Prince: Secrets of</i> <i>positive networking to change your lif</i><i>e</i>, Frog and Prince Networking Corporation, Vancouver</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en2"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx2">2</a> Econsultancy (2014) The Past, Present and Future of Website Optimization, Econsultancy, London</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en3"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx3">3</a> Thomke, S and Beyersdorfer D (2018) <a href="https://www.booking.com/"><span class="url-hyperlink">Booking.com</span></a>, Harvard Business School Case 619-015, October</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en4"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx4">4</a> LeMay, M (2018) <i>Agile for Everybody</i><i>: Creating fast, flexible, and customer-first organizations</i>, O&#x2019;Reilly Media, Farnham, Surrey</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en5"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx5">5</a> Ashkenas, R (2015) How to be an effective executive sponsor, <i>Harvard Business Review</i>, 18 May</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en6"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx6">6</a> Kim, G <i>et al</i> (2016) <i>The</i> <i>Dev</i><i>O</i><i>ps</i> <i>Handbook: How to create world-class agility, reliability,</i> <i>and</i> <i>security in technology organizations</i>, IT Revolution Press, Portland, OR</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en7"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx7">7</a> Dreyer, I and Scerbikova, M (2017) <i>99 Failed Experiments in 30 Days?!</i> [Talk] 27 September, ProductTank, Cape Town, South Africa</li>
<li class="endnote-text" id="ch02_en8"><a role="doc-backlink"  href="#ch02_enx8">8</a> Kim, G <i>et al</i> (2016) <i>The</i> <i>DevOps</i> <i>Handbook: How to Create World-Class Agility, Reliability, and Security in Technology Organizations</i>, IT Revolution Press, Portland, OR</li>

</ol>
</section>
</section></body>
</html>